This repository contains the code to regenerate the figures in the paper:

    "Lagrangian Surface Properties in Regular Stokes Waves",

By

    Smit, Pieter B., Houghton, Isabel A. 2025

Abstract:

    Drifting wave buoys are one of the primary methods to observe wave properties such as wave height and variance
    (energy). However, because of the Lagrangian motion of buoys, the observed profile and mean properties differ from
    comparable Eulerian estimates. Here we derive fourth-order accurate perturbation solutions to the Lagrangian
    displacements and consider if and when such non-linear effects may become important. Considering solutions valid
    from deep to intermediate water, we derive explicit 4th-order expressions for particle motion (including Stokes
    drift and Lagrangian setup) valid throughout the water column and validate results with numerical integration of
    the base theory. We discuss implications with respect to surface motion and find that while wave height is
    invariant, variance, skewness and kurtosis generally are not. In the case of low-steepness and finite Ursell number
    higher-order corrections, this difference can represent a significant fraction (20-40\% for Stokes drift or
    variance) or even dominate (\>100\% for skewness and kurtosis) the leading-order estimate in cases when the theory
    formally still applies (Ursell number <0.4). While these estimations likely will not precisely correspond to real
    world conditions due to missing key physical factors such as depth variability, amplitude modulation, and
    directionality, they highlight the need for caution when interpreting drifter data in intermediate to shallow waters
    - even beyond the surf zone.

A pre-print of the paper may be found at:

    TBD


-- Installation and Usage --

    To reproduce the figures, install the packages in the requirements.txt into your local environment andrun the
    corresponding scripts. The figures will be generated in the `./figures' folder. The algorithms to estimate
    Lagrangian properties are implemented in the `linearwavetheory` package on pypi. For details on methodology we refer
    to the paper.